---
layout: post
image: /images/JCP24.png
link: https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/66a13c3cc9c6a5c07ac9c7b7 
title: "Comparing parameterized and self-consistent approaches to ab initio cavity quantum electrodynamics for electronic strong coupling" 
authors: " Ruby Manderna, Nam Vu, Jonathan Foley"
journal: "ChemRxiv"
year: 2024
category: publication
---
Molecules under strong or ultra-strong light-matter coupling present an intriguing route to modify chemical structure, properties, and reactivity. A rigorous theoretical treatment of such systems requires handling matter and photon degrees of freedom on an equal quantum mechanical footing. In the regime of molecular electronic strong or ultra-strong coupling to one or a few molecules, it is desirable to treat the molecular electronic degrees of freedom using the tools of ab initio quantum chemistry, yielding an approach referred to as ab initio cavity quantum electrodynamics (ai-QED), where the photon degrees of freedom are treated at the level of cavity quantum electrodynamics. We analyze two complementary approaches to ai-QED: (1) a parameterized ai-QED, a two-step approach where the matter degrees of freedom are computed using existing electronic structure theories, enabling the construction of rigorous ai-QED Hamiltonians in a basis of many-electron eigenstates, and (2) self-consistent ai-QED, a one-step approach where electronic structure methods are generalized to include coupling between electronic and photon degrees of freedom. Although these approaches are equivalent in their exact limits, we identify a disparity between the projection of the two-body dipole self-energy operator that appears in the parameterized approach and its exact counterpart in the self-consistent approach. We provide a theoretical argument that this disparity resolves only under the limit of a complete orbital basis and a complete many-electron basis for the projection. We present numerical results highlighting this disparity and its resolution in a particularly simple molecular system of helium hydride cation, where it is possible to approach these two complete basis limits simultaneously. In this same helium hydride system, we examine and compare the practical issue of computational cost required to converge each approach towards the complete orbital and many-electron bases limit. Finally, we assess the aspect of photonic convergence for polar and charged species, finding comparable behavior between parameterized and self-consistent approaches.